6. ABC Corp, a medium-sized company, is concerned about the security of its network
and wants to ensure that its employees are using strong passwords. IT security team has
been tasked with conducting a password strength assessment to identify weak
passwords that may pose a security risk. The IT security team decides to use a
password cracking tool, to perform the password strength assessment. Plan is to target
the company's internal systems, including FTP, SSH. By using Hydra password
cracking tool perform a password strength assessment, so that ABC Corp's IT sec team
was able to identify & address weaknesses in their network's authentication.
Solution: -
Ensure kali Linux and metaspoiltable VM’s are up and running.
# Go to Kali linux terminal, Type
𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑎𝑡𝑒 𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑥_𝑝𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑠. 𝑡𝑥𝑡
It contains dictionary of passwords. Without knowing password, we cannot enter into the target system with
FTP connection.
If 𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑥_𝑝𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑠. 𝑡𝑥𝑡 does not contain 𝑚𝑠𝑓𝑎𝑑𝑚𝑖𝑛, password of metaspoiltable2 VM, Then type below
commands
vi /opt/metasploit-framework/embedded/framework/data/wordlists/unix_passwords.txt
Then add msfadmin and save the file.
Hydra tool is used for password cracking. Type the below command in kali linux terminal for cracking the
password (Dictionary attack), specify the path of 𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑥_𝑝𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑑. 𝑡𝑥𝑡 and IP address of metaspoiltable2 VM.
ℎ𝑦𝑑𝑟𝑎 − 𝑙 𝑚𝑠𝑓𝑎𝑑𝑚𝑖𝑛 − 𝑃 /𝑜𝑝𝑡/𝑚𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑖𝑡 𝑓𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑒𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑘/ 𝑒𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑑𝑑𝑒𝑑 / 𝑓𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑒𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑘/ 𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑎/
𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑙𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑠/𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑥_𝑝𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑠. 𝑡𝑥𝑡
Now it will match the passwords from the dictionary, once the exact match is found. it will display password
matched.
Now get FTP connection to target machine (Metaspoiltable 2) by using below command
ftp 192.168.62.129
Then enter username and password of target machine.
Once you get 𝑓𝑡𝑝 > prompt, it clearly indicates, you got into your target machine.
Navigate yourself to different path by using below commands
𝑓𝑡𝑝 > 𝑙𝑠
𝑓𝑡𝑝 > 𝑐𝑑 𝑣𝑢𝑙𝑛𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒
𝑓𝑡𝑝 > 𝑐𝑑 𝑡𝑤𝑖𝑘𝑖20030201
To transfer the file from your target machine to your system.
𝑓𝑡𝑝 > 𝑔𝑒𝑡 𝑇𝑊𝑖𝑘𝑖20030201. 𝑡𝑎𝑟. 𝑔𝑧
Similarly, once the password of the target machine is known we can also connect target machine by using
SSH Connection by using below command.
𝑠𝑠ℎ − 𝑜 𝐻𝑜𝑠𝑡𝐾𝑒𝑦𝐴𝑙𝑔𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑡ℎ𝑚𝑠 =+ 𝑠𝑠ℎ − 𝑟𝑠𝑎, 𝑠𝑠ℎ − 𝑑𝑠𝑠
Type the password. Then you can see the below prompt
𝑚𝑠𝑓𝑎𝑑𝑚𝑖𝑛@𝑚𝑒𝑡𝑎𝑠𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑖𝑡𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒: ~$
Navigate yourself in the target machine to access the files.
7. Imagine you are the network security administrator for a medium-sized e-commerce
company that operates an online store handling sensitive customer information.
Recently, there have been reports of intermittent service disruptions and slow response
times on your company's website, resulting in customer complaints & loss of revenue.
After conducting initial investigations, you suspect that website may be experiencing
denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, specifically SYN floods and Ping flood attacks. So, it
is important for organizations to have response plans in place to mitigate the impact of
DoS attacks on their operations. Use Hping3, kali Linux tool to perform SYN floods
and ping flood attacks to launch DOS attack on the target machine and proactively
monitor the networks for signs of attack.
A Denial of Service Attack is a cyber-attack in which the attacker seeks to make a machine or network
resource unavailable to its intended users by temporarily or indefinitely distributing services of a host
connected to the internet. DOS attack is typically accomplished by flooding the targeted machine or resource
with superfluous requests in an attempt to overload systems.
Ping Flood DoS Attack: -
Ping Network Utility
● Ping is a troubleshooting tool used by system administrators to manually test for connectivity
between network devices and also for network delay and packet loss.
● The Ping command sends an ICMP echo request to a device on the network, and device responds with
ICMP echo reply.
● The data returned in echo request message must be returned in the echo reply message.
Exercise:
Ensure Kali Linux and Ubuntu vm are up and running. Ping from kali linux machine to Ubuntu
𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔 192. 168. 62. 133
Start capturing ICMP request/reply from Wireshark.
Once you capture and can notice in Wireshark analyzer, the ICMP packet request and ICMP packet reply.
Hping3 Tool Demo
Hping3 tool is used to generate lot of ICMP request packets. (i.e. flooding our target with lot of ping packets)
Wireshark used as a packet analyzer. Ubuntu is a target machine.
In Ubuntu Install Snort (Intrusion Detection System) by using below command.
𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 𝑎𝑝𝑡 − 𝑔𝑒𝑡 𝑖𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑙 𝑠𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑡 − 𝑦
and keep the IDS ready for observing the packet transfer by using below command.
𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 𝑠𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑡 − 𝐴 𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑜𝑙𝑒 − 𝑐 /𝑒𝑡𝑐/𝑠𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑡/𝑠𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑡. 𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑓
Then in Kali linux machine run the hping2 tool commands. And observe Ubuntu snort output and Wireshark
analyzer output for the flood of packets.
a. 𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 ℎ𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔3 − 1 − 𝑐 1 192. 168. 62. 133
b. 𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 ℎ𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔3 − 1 − 𝑐 1 − 𝑖 5 192. 168. 62. 133
c. 𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 ℎ𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔3 − 1 −− 𝑓𝑎𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑟 192. 168. 62. 133
d. 𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 ℎ𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔3 − 1 −− 𝑓𝑎𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑟 192. 168. 62. 133
e. 𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 ℎ𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔3 − 1 − 𝑎 192. 168. 62. 139 192. 168. 62. 133
f. 𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 ℎ𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔3 − 1 –𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑑 − 𝑠𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑐𝑒 192. 168. 62. 133
TCP 3-way handshake
For SYN Flood Attack, use below commands. Ensure Kali Linux and Metaspoiltable2 are up and running.
In kali linux browser, type metaspoiltable 2 IP to launch DVWA application, login.
a. 𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 ℎ𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔3 − 𝑆 − 𝑐 1 − 𝑝 80 192. 168. 62. 129
b. 𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 ℎ𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔3 − 𝑆 − 𝑐 1 − 𝑝 80 − 𝑖 5 192. 168. 62. 129
c. 𝑠𝑢𝑑𝑜 ℎ𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔3 − 𝑆 −− 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑑 − 𝑝 80 192. 168. 62. 129
Once the target machine is flooded with Syn packets, observe in the wireshark analyzer, you can see target
system (metaspoiltable2 Vm) is flooded with packets. And DVWA application is taking time to load.